**<span class="underline">Purpose:</span>**

*The aim of the document is to provide the basic information about the
syntax that needs to be followed while working with C++.It also helps
understanding the detection and troubleshooting of errors in the code.
In other words, this document is a cheat sheet for C++ programming.*

*  
*

# Contents

[1 Introduction of C++ 3](#introduction-of-c)

[1.1 Comments 3](#comments)

[1.2 Code organization and style 3](#code-organization-and-style)

[1.3 Syntax errors 3](#syntax-errors)

[1.4 Compilation errors 4](#compilation-errors)

[1.5 Initialization and assignment 4](#initialization-and-assignment)

[1.6 Memory Management 4](#memory-management)

[1.7 Logic and Control flow 4](#logic-and-control-flow)

[1.8 Function Usage 4](#function-usage)

[1.9 Error handling 5](#error-handling)

[1.10 Variable scope and lifetime 5](#variable-scope-and-lifetime)

[1.11 Array handling 5](#array-handling)

[1.12 Type mismatches 5](#type-mismatches)

[1.13 Const correctness 5](#const-correctness)

[1.14 The operands of a logical && or || shall be primary expressions
5](#the-operands-of-a-logical-or-shall-be-primary-expressions)

[1.15 Object-oriented programming guidelines
6](#object-oriented-programming-guidelines)

[1.16 Testing and Debugging 6](#testing-and-debugging)

[1.17 Performance considerations 6](#performance-considerations)

[1.18 Version control and Documentation
6](#version-control-and-documentation)

*  
*

# **Introduction of C++**

C++ is a cross-platform language, developed by Bjarne Stroustrup as an
extension to C language and C++ can be used to create high-performance
application. It is one of the most popular programming language among
the programmers. C++ is an object-oriented programming language which
gives clear structure to the programs and allows code to be reused,
lowering development costs.

Let’s see some of the basic things which are used regularly and is
important to know.

## Comments

  - Follow the header format for files and functions.

  - Explain the purpose of variables and constants, and to aid in the
    understanding of the code.

  - Use consistent comment style for declarations of “user-defined”
    types, static and non-static data members and methods.

You can do comment in C++ in following ways,

  - The /\* (slash, asterisk) characters, followed by any sequence of
    characters (including new lines), followed by the \*/ characters.
    This syntax is the same as ANSI C.

  - The // (two slashes) characters, followed by any sequence of
    characters. A new line not immediately preceded by a backslash
    terminates this form of comment. Therefore, it is commonly called a
    "single-line comment."

## Code organization and style

  - Verify that your code follows proper indentation and formatting
    conventions.

  - Check for the meaningful variable and function name that reflect
    their purpose.

  - Ensure consistent naming conventions for variables, functions, and
    classes.

  - Limit the length of lines and avoid excessive code duplication.(max
    80 characters in a line)

  - Use appropriate whitespace to enhance readability.

  - Group related code together and use appropriate comments for code
    sections.

## Syntax errors

  - Check for missing or misplaced semicolons at the end of the
    statements.

  - Ensure that opening and closing braces({}) are properly matched.

  - Verify that the parentheses and square brackets are used correctly.

  - Each statement shall start on a new line:

Unacceptable:

If(dValue \!= dOtherValue) {bValuesSame = false;}

Acceptable:

if(dValue \!= dOtherValue) {

bValuesSame = false;

}

  - The opening brace should be on the same line as the if statement,
    followed by a newline and proper indentation for the code block
    inside.

## Compilation errors

  - Check for missing or incorrect header file inclusions.

  - Verify that function and variable names are spelled correctly.

  - Ensure that all required libraries are linked correctly.

  - Each error or warning message generated by tool shall be addressed
    and resolved.

## Initialization and assignment

  - Verify that all variables are properly initialized before use.

  - Check for accidental assignment (=) instead of equality comparison
    (==).

  - Ensure that pointers are initialized to valid memory address.

## Memory Management

  - Check for proper allocation and deallocation of dynamic memory using
    new and delete or new \[\] and delete\[\].

  - Avoid memory leaks by ensuing all allocated memory is properly
    released.

## Logic and Control flow

  - Check for logical errors in conditional statements, loops, and
    switch statements.

  - Verify that loops have proper termination conditions to avoid
    infinite loops.

  - Ensure that break statements are used correctly in switch
    statements.

## Function Usage

  - Verify that the function calls have the correct number and type of
    arguments.

  - Check for missing return statements in non-void functions.

  - Ensure that function prototypes and definitions match.

  - A function shall have a single point of exit at the end of the
    function.

  - All exits paths from a function with non-void return type have an
    explicit return statement with an expression.

## Error handling

  - Check for error codes or exceptions returned by functions and handle
    them appropriately.

  - Include meaningful error message or logging to aid in debugging and
    troubleshooting.

  - Verify that the error conditions are properly checked and handled in
    your code.

## Variable scope and lifetime

  - Check for variables used outside their intended scope.

  - Ensure that variables are not used after they have gone out of
    scope.

## Array handling

  - Verify that array indices are within bounds to avoid out-of-bound
    access.

  - Ensure that multidimensional arrays are declared and accessed
    correctly.

## Type mismatches

  - Check for incompatible types in assignments, functions calls, and
    expressions.

  - Verify that the correct type specifiers are used for variables and
    function return types.

## Const correctness

  - Check for the missing or incorrect usage of the const keyword for
    variables and function parameters.

## The operands of a logical && or || shall be primary expressions

  - Do not allow usage of ^(XOR) operand in logical operations.

  - Primary expressions are either a single identifier, or a constant,
    or a parenthesized expression. The effect of this rule is to require
    that if an operand is ither than a single identifier or constant
    then it must be parenthesized.

Unacceptable:

if (x == 0 && ishigh);

if (x || y && z);

Acceptable:

if ((x == 0) && ishigh);

if (x || (y && z));

## Object-oriented programming guidelines

  - Follow the principles of encapsulation, inheritance, and
    polymorphism.

  - Use appropriate access modifiers (public, private, protected) for
    class members.

  - Implement proper class relationship and dependencies.

  - Avoid excessive coupling between classes.

## Testing and Debugging

  - Include thorough unit testes for your code.

  - Use a debugger to identify and fix issues.

  - Consider using assertions to verify assumptions and catch potential
    bugs.

  - Document known limitation or known issues in your code.

## Performance considerations

  - Optimize critical sections of code for efficiency

  - Avoid unnecessary computation or redundant operations.

  - Use appropriate data structures and algorithms to improve
    performance.

## Version control and Documentation

  - Utilize a version control system to track changes and collaborate
    with others.

  - Maintain clear and up-to-date documentation for your code, including
    API documentation if applicable.

  - Include code comments or docstrings to explain complex algorithms or
    important concept.
