**<span class="underline">Widely used functions in IBM DOORS.</span>**

**Requirements Management:**

In IBM DOORS, requirement management involves creating, editing, and
organizing requirements. This function allows you to define and maintain
a structured set of requirements of your projects.

To create and manage requirements, follow these steps:

  - Open the specific module where the requirement is stored.

  - To create a new requirement, use the “Edit” menu and select “Create
    Object”. You can then define the attributes of the requirements.

  - To edit existing requirements, simply select the requirement in the
    module view and use the “Edit” menu.

**Traceability:**

It is a critical feature in DOOES that allows you to establish and
visualize the relationship between requirements, test cases, and other
project artifacts. This function is essential for tracking how the
requirements are linked to each other and ensuring that all the project
elements are aligned.

To establish traceability between requirements,

  - In the module view, select the source requirement.

  - Right-click on the requirement and choose “Links \> Create”.

  - This will open a dialog box where you can select the type of link
    and target requirements.

  - Click on OK to establish the traceability link.

**Version Control:**

This feature helps you to track changes made to requirements over time.
You can check requirements in and out, view version history, and compare
different versions to understand the evolution of your requirements.

To use version control, you can follow these steps

  - Select the requirements you want to check in or check out.

  - Use the “Tools” menu and select “Version Control” to perform
    check-in and check-out operations.

  - To view the history version, you can right-click the requirement and
    choose “History”.

**Custom Attributes:**

DOORS allows the user to define custom attributes to get additional data
or information according to the project specification. These attributes
can be customized at the module level, and you can use them to provide
context and details for your requirements.

To define or manage custom attributes,

  - Open the module where the requirements are stored.

  - Use “Module” menu and select “Edit Module”. This will allow you to
    define or edit custom attributes to the module.

**Document Generation:**

This function enables you to generate documents and reports from your
requirement data. You can select the specific requirements or content
you want to include in a document and then create a report in various
formats.

To generate Documents in DOORS,

  - In the Module view, select the requirements you want to include in
    the document.

  - Use the “File” menu and select “Export”.

  - Follow the steps to specify the document format and content.

**Validation and Verification:**

DOORS often supports validation and verification processes by allowing
you to create and manage test cases. These test cases can be linked to
requirements, ensuring that the project meets the specified criteria.

To create and manage test cases, you can follow these steps:

  - Open the “Testing” or “Quality Assurance” section within your
    project.

  - Use the available options to manage the test cases which can be
    linked to requirements for validation.

**Change Impact Analysis:**

It is a feature which helps you understand how changes in one
requirement might affect other requirements or project elements. This
function often requires creating custom queries or scripts to assess the
impact of change in requirements. This is typically a more advanced
function and may require technical expertise.

**Baselining:**

It is used to capture the project snapshots at specific point in time.
It allows you to preserve the state of requirements and related
artifacts for reference or auditing purposes.

To create baseline, follow these steps

  - Use “Tools” menu and select “Baseline”.

  - Choose the requirements or modules you want to include in baseline.

  - Create and manage baseline as needed.
