**System Requirements Documents**

A system requirements document (SRD) specifies the goal and
characteristics (i.e functionality) of a new component.

It should be concise and limit itself within the realm of goal and
functionality description, so it should just answer “Why are we
composing this system?” “What is its function?” “What are it’s inputs
and outputs?” **Not** “How are we going to build it?” **nor**, “How does
system operate specifically?”.

The description should be clear and understandable to all stakeholders,
so it is best to avoid technical jargon as much as possible. So the
people who are in charge of the planning process may know what is meant
by it and how to build upon that. And those who aren’t responsible for
planning will know what is going on without having to dedicate time into
understanding the details.

Besides that the format should be consistent within the document.
Quantities are to be expressed in precise manner, meaning, numerically
then words must not be used to describe quantities or relations between
quantities. Comparisons are to be expressed, once again, numerically so
that no room for interpretation is left in addition to that the
comparison is not to be qualified therefore words like “good”, “bad”,
“sufficient”, “better” are strongly disliked.

**Contents**

1.  **Introduction**

2.  **Overall system description**

3.  **Functional requirements**

4.  **Non Functional Requirements**

5.  **Proof of Concept Results**

6.  **Glossary**

**Introduction**: The reason of the creation of the system, which
function is it to suppose to fulfill, what and its inputs and outputs.
These are some of the questions that ought to be answered in the
introduction part of the project.

**Overall system description**: Here the outputs and inputs are to be
described in more detail, but bearing in mind that, it must be
understood by everyone involved.

**Funtional requirements**: are the requirements that describe what the
product is supposed to do, the products features, user requirements,…
functional requirements can be classified according to different
criteria. For example: the **functional requirement** of an
**automobile** is a motor, transmission system, tyres, direction system
and brakes.

**Non functional requirements**: These are performance and security
requirements, and every other aspect that is not essential for the
function of the system. That would entail chassis, lights, doors, seats,
windows,... Are all nonfunctional requirements. It doesn’t mean they
aren’t important, they may be **essential for security**,
**performance** and **user** **comfort** (in case of a vehicle for
example) but not for it’s functionality.

**Proof of Concept**: is a model of what the system should look like,
only with the basic function. This helps the stakeholders to know about
the feasibility of the system before the whole process of planning and
development begins.

**Glossary**: is where all abbreviations, acronyms, necessary jargon is
explained.
